---
layout: post
title: Kubernetes: A Beginner's Perspective
---
	Today, in our age of computing, many technological concepts have grown so abstract that even comprehending them is a challenge. Still, the best way to understand something is to dive right in and try it yourself. Now I’ll be trying that with Kubernetes.
	
	First, what is Kubernetes? According to the [documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/what-is-kubernetes/), “Kubernetes is a portable, extensible open-source platform for managing containerized workloads and services, that facilitates both declarative configuration and automation”. In the simplest terms, it’s a platform for managing containers, which are basically programs isolated from the rest of the computer. Kubernetes operates by defining computer resources as objects. The most basic of these objects is the pod, which holds one or more containers that can communicate within the pod. Then there are services, which is a set of pods that work together. There are many other types of objects, but pods and services are 2 of the most important ones. These objects are created by .yaml files, which specify the apiVersion, kind, metadata, and spec of the object. Finally, the collection of these objects forms clusters.

	It’s important to mention at the outset that I’m using Windows 10 as my host OS. If you’re following along with a different operating system, you may need to do things slightly differently. Using the Kubernetes [documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/) as a guide, I started by installing the necessary components to run Kubernetes. For me, that was [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/release/notes/) itself, [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/), [Docker](https://hub.docker.com/editions/community/docker-ce-desktop-windows) and [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/). I chose Minikube because it made the most sense as a learning tool on my local machine, but the documentation lists [dozens of different options](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/pick-right-solution/) depending on what you’re looking to accomplish. I already had VirtualBox installed and virtualization enabled in the BIOS, but if you’re inexperienced with virtualization, that’s another necessary step. Alternatively, you can skip all the downloads and just use the Katacoda environment in your browser.
	
	After setting everything up, I opened Powershell and navigated to the directory Kubernetes was installed. [Following these instructions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/hello-minikube/) I created a basic Hello World node.js app. I ran the command “minikube start” to create a Virtual Machine that runs a single-node Kubernetes cluster. If you’re following along, you can see the creation of a new instance in VirtualBox. Then I ran the command “minikube dashboard” to open an html page that displays all the cluster information in a very readable format. I then used “kubectl create” to create a deployment which manages a pod, while the pod runs a container based on a Docker image. The documentation helpfully provides a simple “Hello World” docker image to this end. I went through some of the other kubectl commands like “kubectl get pods” and “kubectl get events” to see what they did. At this point I wanted to mess around with Docker and create a local container on my own and run a deployment based on that, just as a proof of concept. So I wrote my own “Hello World” Java program, downloaded Docker, created a Dockerfile, and then built the container successfully. 
	
	It was at this stage where I started running into issues. I had everything complete at this point, and just needed to deploy the image with Minikube. Unfortunately, it was unable to pull the image from the local machine. I tried debugging it for a while, but the most obvious solution was impractical and unsatisfying to me. That solution involved creating a private repository on the Google Container Registry and uploading the image, which is the same place the demo pulled the Hello World image from. However, that would have required purchasing resources from the Google Cloud Platform. I imagine that creating a private repository and uploading an image would be trivial, and for my learning purposes that’s good enough. 

	At this point, I returned to the Kubernetes documentation and went through the [6 interactive tutorials](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/) on the basics of Kubernetes. Some of it was a review of the commands I tried earlier, but it explored the development process in greater depth. I give a lot of credit to the tutorials for being very user-friendly. In less than an hour, I was able to go through all the steps from creating a cluster to scaling and updating an app, understanding each line of code along the way. 
	
	I started this project in order to learn about Kubernetes. What it is, why it’s used, and how to use it. Despite having almost 0 prior knowledge, I think I was able to get a solid grasp of all those things and more. I only got a slight taste of the power and customization that Kubernetes can bring to containerized environments, but it’s already evident why K8s is one of the fastest-growing open-source projects out there. To anyone else trying to learn Kubernetes, the documentation really is your best friend. In particular, I cannot recommend the interactive tutorials enough. You don’t have to download anything to use them, and it takes less than an hour to get through all of them. I think they do a good job explaining each line of code, so make sure you’re following them every step of the way. Below is an imgur album of screenshots I took, in case you’d like to follow along with what I was doing.

https://imgur.com/a/fTAicpw 
